I don't want to be the kind of person
who says they're vegan but who delights
at the chance to eat cheese pizza
pepperoni and cheese pizza for free
because someone else paid for it I
refuse to use cocaine not for the sake
of the cocaine
not for the sake of indirect
consequences for the economy of Belize
or Colombia I refuse to use cocaine
because of Who I am there's a judgment
here on the perpetrator I don't want to
be a crackhead on the contrary I
actively want to be the kind of person
who uniformly and consistently refuses
to use cocaine if you have the
opportunity to rape someone hold unquote
without consequences like these rapists
I've described or it won't have these
numbers would you jump at the chance to
take that opportunity if so there's a
judgement on you that stands or Falls
independent of the consequences there's
a question of who you are and who you
aspire to be if you don't want to be a
rapist
it doesn't mean you only rate people
sometimes or when you can get away with
it or when the consequences eliminate it
means you're committed to never
committing rape if you do not support
slavery it means you don't participate
in slavery if it's a little bit and you
take that opportunity to stand up and
say no I'm going to stand up again I'm
not gonna be a part of this if you are
vegan it means you refuse to use animal
products even when there is no you when
you're not paying for it even when
someone else pays for it
[Music]
let me see in this video opens with an
historical analogy and then we get
straight to the point
I read the autobiography of a Christian
preacher a Protestant a white man who
went from Europe to North America and
then from North America to what is today
Myanmar then the British colony of Burma
he was a brilliant linguist he learned
many of the local languages he actually
wrote hymns he wrote songs for local
people to sing that converted them to
Christianity hard-working man with a
brilliant mind shame that he used it to
such a bad purpose but of course in his
way he was a man very much committed to
his own morality a moral code I disagree
with but a moral code nevertheless when
he was living there in Myanmar you know
of course in very very hard conditions
over 100 years ago much tougher than
anything we endured today he received
gifts from supporters all around the
world who learned about the work he was
doing through Christian missionary
bulletins newspapers and this sort of
thing and every so often he'd received
handmade gifts from the southern United
States woven baskets or what have you
and every single time despite the
poverty and difficulty he lived in
despite his remote location he made the
effort to pack them up in boxes and ship
them all the way back the United States
wherever it was they come from with a
note explaining that he does not accept
gifts from slave owners that he does not
accept gifts that are made by slaves in
many ways from my perspective he was a
man whose whole life was devoted to
taking free people and making them into
slaves destroying their culture
destroying their language destroying
their independence and converting them
to a to a foreign ideology that you know
in a sense in a sense in a very abstract
sense of slavery but he was standing up
on point of moral principle now the
people have been debating with lately I
can't believe this is a controversial
issue they might question well what harm
is actually done
by the basket itself if you use this
basket
you're not enslaving anyone you're not
torturing anyone you're not directly
approving of or endorsing slavery are
you it is from my perspective completely
surreal than in the 2008 in the year
2018 I've had this passionate response
from vegans who stood up one after
another and tried to defend the idea
that vegans can and should wear leather
the vegans can and should wear the
dismembered corpses of dead animals so
long as it is secondhand so long as for
example it's a hand-me-down that your
older brother bought it tried it on
decide it didn't look good on him and
then he hands it to you to wear as long
as someone else gets the unique bad
karma that they imagine is attached to
the act of buying the item they think
there is no magical bad karma attached
to owning and using the item in
perpetuity and that from my perspective
is really laughable and surreal
now I've already made a video that I
think covers most of my point and the
level controversy the level ups the
number of people have wanted to dispute
this with me at some length and some
depth this is the most controversial
subject of my channel in that sense it's
called most controversial measuring the
controversy by the number of vegans who
really want to dispute me the most
controversial since my first comments on
vivisection when I'm in my first
comments on vivisection there were many
people who were furious and really
wanted to talk to me it made a lot of
videos Department so um
the difference is vivisection is really
a deep worthwhile issue to discuss with
the department and many many people say
that including outright abolitionists
like Gary France I own a Gary France I
own a does acknowledge that abolition of
vivisection and animal experimentation
for science for scientific research is
ethically different and more complex
than the use of animals for circuses
food leather etc he seen him say that in
interviews with journalists giving
almost verbatim the same answer again
and again there's something that that's
really worth talking about and this
topic
secondhand leather and second immorality
there is no depth to it there is no
complexity to it there's nothing here
worth debating that's why it stuns me
that people have been getting in touch
with me to talk to me at length
basically demanding that I repeat the
same points again again the same simple
definitions again again because all that
my argument relies on is the
understanding that if you are a vegan
therefore you regard the use of animal
products as bad as something to be
avoided so therefore using leather is
something bad it's nine to be avoided
assuming you're not abandoned on a
desert island assuming you're not in a
situation where you will freeze to death
unless you wear this leather coat that's
not what were debating today was within
veganism this is the status of
second-hand leather than veganism and
the counter arguments that are presented
to me are really surreal they're they're
they're bad and misguided in and of
themselves and they lead to necessary
absurdities so I've been asking these
people hypothetical questions that are
not terribly hypothetical like well if
you have two men let's say you have two
identical brothers and they both show up
at a vegan protest wearing fur coats but
one of them says oh don't worry I got
the coat for free
I got it secondhand or it was a
hand-me-down for my grandmother and the
other one says oh I bought it I paid
cash I ordered it sure you really think
this is different there they are men
wearing leather coats sort of win this
case for coats what have you the only
thing my argument rests on is the very
basic concept that wearing a leather
coat is still wearing a leather coat
using fur using animal products or using
animals is still using animals whether
or not you have this excuse for it
whether or not you were removed from the
moral Act the moral decision of choosing
to buy that product by one or two stages
whether it's cuz you got it secondhand
because you got it as a hand-me-down for
your brother or what have you so the the
counter-argument must be and this is
what I've challenged people says what is
the difference you see between these two
identical twin brothers and
had to ask people would you yourself go
to a vegan protest wearing a fur coat
and then when other vegans are alarmed
explain oh no don't worry at secondhand
what possible sense could your moral
paradigms make if they lead to these
kinds of excuses these kinds of absurd
situations and that you see a deep
ethical difference between two men again
identical in all other respects who are
both wearing fur coats or wearing
leather coats but one of them peed
himself and in the other case he got it
for free from his brother I mean if
someone else made this immoral decision
what's the decision you're making in
participating in it what's the decision
you're making in benefiting from it
that's it brings us back to this simple
example of the Christian missionary in
Myanmar he's making a decision he's not
going to participate in slavery he's not
going to benefit from slavery even
though admittedly he as many stages were
moved from directly exploiting the
slaves or you know killing someone
putting someone in Chains kidnapping
someone or raising someone's children as
indentured servants or what-have-you
he's not involved in any of that but
he's putting his foot down and saying no
he supports the abolition of slavery
therefore he's not going to participate
in or benefit from slavery
we support the abolition of factory
farming and of the factory leather
industry and so on as different stages
of that same industry therefore we're
not going to participate in this now
another illustration of this that again
none to be able to be with it have had
any terribly good answer to was why is
it that we regard it as immoral for
human being to wear a t-shirt that
approves of Adolf Hitler or approves of
the Holocaust that's not too terribly
hypothetical we just had a whole bunch
of people wearing t-shirts like that and
holding up flags like that and an
infamous protest that took place in
Charlottesville Virginia so there's been
quite a lot of political discussion
about that what is the meeting once
there's an evidence of that well wearing
a t-shirt of that kind I mean where as
just wearing a t-shirt with a political
slogan on it
doesn't in any way causally involve you
in the etre
to the Holocaust nevertheless there's
the the the fact of wearing this the
fact of voicing your approval in this
form has an ethical significance that
everyone can recognize so why would it
be difficult for vegans within the vegan
movement to see the problem with a
t-shirt stating a slogan of this kind
and yet to refuse to see the
significance of actually wearing the the
dismembered pieces of animals bodies now
there is an answer to this question and
the answer is that these people believe
in a doctrine which is sometimes called
utilitarianism and sometimes called
consequentialism in the context of this
conversation they boil down to the same
thing I've realized those words do not
have the same meaning but they pertain
to this question in the same way um now
I'm gonna put a trigger warning here if
this hasn't been disturbing enough for
you we're gonna get into some really
disturbing examples psychologically
disturbing if you believe in
consequentialism you believe in judging
the ethics an action by its consequences
by its outcomes and in many instances
that is very plainly evil in my opinion
and within the vegan movement it leads
to absurd contradictions conclusions and
excuse making excuse making that is so
strictly paralleled the excuses that
meteors make for eating meat that
frankly it blows my mind any of these
vegans can take themselves seriously
when offering these excuses for wearing
second a leather or indeed I should add
when they make these same excuses for
eating secondhand meat every single one
of these people who supports wearing
secondhand leather would also stand by
eating meat or eating cheese in
circumstances where you didn't pay for
it so again this is freeloading this is
free riding on someone else's bad
decision so a very real-world scenario
one of the people I talked to is a
university student so he's often in
situations at a university meeting or
someone else has bought a pizza for
everyone to share let's say there's both
meat and cheese on the pizza as a
pepperoni pizza and everyone can have a
slice for free and he thinks there's no
moral significance to him as a vegan
eating meat and cheese he thinks that's
morally neutral she's
because he didn't purchase it again the
instance of the basket made by slaves so
you think that is simply because this
basket was given you you didn't enslave
the people you're not participating in
you're not benefiting from slavery by
using the basket again baskets a very
very remote example compared to eating
you know eating the bodies of dead
animals because it's anyway it's it's uh
it's it's mind-blowing to me
um this perspective consequentialism
entails certain absurdities precisely
because it shifts the locus of our
judgment to the consequences to the
outcomes which may be quite irrelevant
to the moral character the person making
the decision or doing the act i have
heard two cases in depth of men who
committed rape against women again every
possible trigger warning you might want
to close the video now that's gonna
strip you men who committed rape against
women and the women were completely
unaware and they had no psychological
consequences or distress to they didn't
even know what had happened until the
police contacted them and presenteth
evidence in one of the cases the man had
filmed himself committing the crime and
then indeed this was used to convict him
and the woman who was the victim she had
absolutely no memory of it drugs were
involved in another case the man was a
surgeon so again he had the drugs used
to put someone put someone to sleep to
to injure surgery so they had no
physical experience they had no side
effect no harm no psychological is worth
so you can compare two different rapists
or three different rapists we can come
up with different scenarios where the
consequences are orderly utterly
different we in one case there was
trauma and the woman's life is destroyed
why we had pregnancy in one case that
the rape results in pregnancy and
changes the whole woman's life forever
in in all kinds of ways psychologically
physically economically and then you
have another case where absolutely
nothing changes there are no
consequences this rape was committed
and if the if the videotape had been
lost let's say hypothetically she would
have never known there would have been
no negative side effects for her
whatsoever
a true consequence of me a true
consequentialist someone who really
believes in this form of utilitarian
thinking of judging actions by their
their consequences would judge these two
rapists differently in fact strictly
speaking if you believe in the well
being centered model of utilitarianism
you might even have to regard one of
them as neutral or good but at a minimum
one would be much less evil than the
other to me that is irrelevant because
when I'm judging a case of rape I'm not
judging the victim I'm judging the
perpetrator I'm judging the decision
that person made and in many Western
countries on many schools of law the
rapist who in this way completely got
away with the crime who were they left
no awareness on the part of the victim
the victim was drugged in such a way
whether by a surgeon or or otherwise
that it had none of these negative
consequences they may be more guilty
they may face a much sterner sentence
precisely because the method used here
reflects very clear premeditation this
person took responsibility they made
this decision it wasn't spontaneous they
weren't drunk or distracted there were
no other possible excuses here to
mitigate it
they will probably get a worse sentence
they will probably get a fuller Senate
they'll get more punishment than someone
in some other circumstances that didn't
show for example for meditation many
Western cultures not all premeditation
leads to the crime being judged more
harshly right a judge or sentenced I
should say and indeed in me it may be a
slightly different charge than other
circumstances that are dealt with
okay so consequentialism and
utilitarianism lead to absurdities
within veganism right now one of the
main proponents of this who have
criticized in many videos on my channel
is unnatural vegan and her version of
utilitarianism and consequentialism she
uses both terms to describe herself
leads her to make excuses for
or drinking milk as long as it's
produced by a cow that's happy eating
meat she will literally eat meat if she
orders food and the waiter brings her
the wrong order so again this is like
second hand leather second hand meat
second hand cheese she accepts that as
vegan so we now have a rationale for
vegans eating and again put this into
context there's the emotional
psychological reality so if you order a
vegan soup I know let's say you order a
vegan minestrone soup and you don't even
say you're vegan it's just you know it's
on the menu it's vegan and and the
waiter happens to bring you a pork
dumpling soup what's the mentality of
this so-called vegan who subscribes to
utilitarianism and consequentially or
they say oh great oh goody
Oh wonderful here's my opportunity to
pork because in their mind
they've justified this they've indicated
this this action by saying that if they
don't eat it
it'll go into the garbage they consider
that a waste I do not I differ from this
whole line of thinking branch as I've
already said in in an earlier video so
they might as well just use this animal
products they might as well just benefit
from the immoral act someone else did
same way again you want to benefit from
the fact that your brother bought a
leather coat your grandmother bought a
fur coat and they gave it to you for
whatever you got it secondhand you
didn't pay but you still want to benefit
I mean if you again the basket made by
slaves and the significance the moral
significance of refusing to use the
basket in refusing to use the basket
you're putting your foot down saying I
will not be a part of slavery no I
understand from a consequentialist
respect you say well you know if you're
just using the basket or you are you
really a part of slavery um if you're
wearing a leather jacket I don't have to
reach for this concept of indirect
consequences whether through the free
market or psychology or what-have-you
I'm not really concerned about you know
the perception of others and I don't
know your self perception how you feel
but those like if you're wearing a
leather jacket my argument is simple
that you are wearing a leather jacket
and the fact that in your mind you have
this excuse that you didn't pay for your
brother paid for it is immaterial it's
irrelevant that is in plain English
simply not good enough now I say this
you know with all due humility there are
circumstances you're freezing to death
on a desert island there is literally no
other clothing you post wait there are
some excuses that are good enough ok
that's not one of them somebody else
paid is not one of them right now why do
I use these examples that from some
perspectives just been targeting people
who really don't get how these examples
are related ultimately the judgment
about rape doesn't have to do with the
consequences for the victim as I say
because I'm not judging the victim I'm
judging the perpetrator we're judging is
this man a rapist is he guilty of rape
ok if you wear a leather jacket you're
wearing a leather jacket you're engaged
in animal use as like I said before if
it's a horse I don't care that you
didn't buy the horse the fact that you
keep it in captivity and write it that's
it this is use veganism is opposed to
all use of animals but so if you
identify as a vegan you are therefore a
hypocrite in wearing a leather jacket or
a fur jacket or eating the pizza that
someone else purchased for you right
ultimately this isn't a judgement about
indirect consequences it's not a
judgment indirect consequences for the
victim of a rape it's not a judgment
indirect consequences like by accepting
this basket made by a slave or you
somehow perpetuating the cycle of
slavery on that slave plantation no no
it doesn't rely on any of these things
the question is about you as a person
making the decision of who you are and
that for me is what links this the
question of whether or not you refused
to wear secondhand leather whether not
you refuse a basket made by slaves
whether or not you refuse all
lampshade made it of human skin some
that really happened during World War
two the concentration camps that did
make lamps at a few minutes ago whether
or not you refused to wear leather
whether or not you refuse to be an
accessory to rape well not you refused
to use cocaine ultimately I refuse to
use cocaine not for the sake of the
cocaine now for the sake of indirect
consequences for the economy of Belize
or Colombia I refuse to use cocaine
because of Who I am there's a judgment
here on the perpetrator I don't want to
be a crackhead on the contrary I
actively want to be the kind of person
who uniformly and consistently refuses
to use cocaine I don't want to be the
kind of person who says they're vegan
but who delights at the chance to eat
cheese pizza pepperoni and cheese pizza
for free because someone else paid for
it if I did that in a very meaningful
sense I would be a different person that
would be a different moral and ethical
identity for Who I am if you have the
opportunity to rape someone
hold on quote without consequences like
these rapists have described or it won't
have these numbers would you jump at the
chance to take that opportunity if so
there's a judgment on you that stands or
Falls independent of the consequences
there's a question of who you are and
who you aspire to be if you don't want
to be a rapist
it doesn't mean you only rate people
sometimes or when you can get away with
it or when the consequences eliminate it
means you're committed to never
committing rape if you do not support
slavery it means you don't participate
in slavery if it's a little bit and you
take that opportunity to stand up and
say no I'm going to stand up again I'm
not going to be a part of this if you
are vegan it means you refuse to use
animal products even when there's no
when you're not paying for it even when
someone else pays for it it means you
take that stand which is not that hard
to take you say to your brother look if
you give me this second hand leather
garbage you pardon me
you say to your brother I understand
you're trying to give me this leather
jacket it's secondhand you think I can
use it and you can't anymore if you give
me this jacket I'm gonna throw it in the
garbage because my moral position is
that that's where this belongs I don't
think that the body parts of animals are
clothing for me to wear if you invite me
to a party or someone else paid for
cheese pizza if you insist on giving me
a piece of pepperoni pizza I'm gonna put
it in the garbage because from my
perspective ethically that's where it
belongs
I'm not gonna participate in the
exploitation of death and animals
ecologically ethically in terms of
health I have all these reasons and the
fact that someone else paid for it may
matter it may be a significant moral
consideration in many ways but as I said
before the lesser of two evils is still
evil the fact that it might be less evil
for me to eat a pizza when someone else
paid for it or for me to wear a leather
jacket when someone else bought it
doesn't mean that it's not wrong a virus
yen